# GDIM32-Final
## Check-In
### Weida Chen
The most signicant aspect that I've contributed to this project is the creation of the inventory. I found our proposal to be detailed enough for constructing our project as of now, since I haven't found myself to need to really add on to the proposal at all, and that most of the features are clearly layed out for me to implement. I've used all of the architecture plans in actually building the project, so not much has changed for that either. For example, I was using the MVC model to implement the inventory, where you have the internal inventory for the player that contains data only, and an inventoryUI which displays those internal data via API that communicate with the data. The internal PlayerInventory has a list of individual InventorySlots, which each contains ItemData, a scriptable object class that contains data about the item. When a new item is added to the inventory, or when items are dragged around in the inventory and placed in a new slot, an event, OnInventoryChanged, is invoked so that the listeners from InventoryUI knows to Refresh() the inventoryUI, and display the correct data correctly regarding which slot the item currently resides in. Besides the inventory, I created a locator singleton which contains the player reference, where the HealthUI subscribes UpdateHealth to the OnHealthChanged event from the player. I also utilized the statemachine patterns to create abstract superstates and states for the player movement, and plan to create attack behaviours as well as enemy AI with the pattern in the future as well. We used a google doc to keep us on track based on the week number, and make progress based on the task assignments. 


### Leandro Lopez Ramirez 

The most signficant part that I have contributed to this project was the creation of  the map design with the implmetation of future scnerary into the map. For example I added particle system which is going to be used for a more proper immersion for lighting, right now the placeholder for it is a defualt particle system with some minor tweaks however with a shader implemented its going to have that fire effect later. Although each of us have made a seperate scene in my scene I added more structured paths as well through the use of tilemaps creating a dirt layer and details like a gameobject for terrianField which gives a crop like look for the place. With the proposal so far from week 7 it has been useful in the sense of where Ill potentially add details in the map ensuring that I wont go off topic. My archetiture design has changed since it looks like were going to be making a small map. Tool we used was a googledoc to keep track of progress.Ill plan to refine my particle system and improve the map itself. Additionally other things added were gameobjects like a well with lighting effects, bulding gameobjects for immersion and detail. 


### Lillian Su
My most significant contribution up until now is in finding character, character animation, item, environment, music, and UI 3D assets. I've uploaded these to our game and organized the items in folders. Additionally, I've organized our Final tasks document on google docs to keep track of our progress and tasks for each week. In order to keep myself organized, I've noted tasks for each week to complete and planned for future tasks I will do. From now, I hope to add the sound effects that correlate to the movements the player makes as well as the background music to alter depending on the environment/situation the player is in.


### Group Devlog
Prompt B: We used spherecasting in order to check for whether the player is on the ground or not, and if not, then the player should not be able to jump. We needed to use spherecasting for this feature because we felt like raycasting isn't a good solution for 3D models checking grounded state, when previously it was good for the same feature in a 2D game, simply because the ray cannot capture the whole player's capsule collider position. We have the sphere cast straight down from the player center origin + some Vector3.up offset, and if it hits the ground within a specified distance, then the player's isGrounded value is set to true, and false otherwise. Other than the spherecast, we also used raycast for the point and click intereaction we have with items. We create a ray from the center of the camera using 'mainCam.ViewportPointToRay(new Vector3(0.5f, 0.5f, 0f)', and if the Raycast using that ray hits an interactable object within a specified range, the player is able to click and collect the item, and store it into the inventory. 



## Final Submission
### Group Devlog
The three design patterns that we used in this project are the state machine pattern, the Model-View-Controller pattern, and the singleton pattern. To start off, we utilized the statemachine pattern to mainly program the logics of our player. We created a StateMachine class to handle the transitioning of the various CharacterBaseState subclasses like Player_IdleState, Player_MoveState, Player_JumpState, Player_FallState, and Player_AttackState. Each state all have the following method they can choose to override or not from the parent CharacterBaseState: Enter(), Update(), FixedUpdate(), and Exit(). Since CharacterBaseStates does not inherit from Monobehaviour, the Update() and FixedUpdate() methods are meant to be called, from a class that is Monobehaviour, which is our player class. The player class only updates the active state, and whenever a state is changed to another, the ChangeState() method from the statemachine calls Exit() on the previous state, then calls Enter() on the new state, and the player will start updating the new state as the current state. The main benefits of incorporating this design pattern was the separation of logic between states. There is no need for me to check whether I can attack or not in the jump state, because I don't intend to let the player attack while jumping, so I don't need to include a condition that changes from jump state to attack state and it will never happen. By doing this, we separate out the necessary logics for each state and don't check for redundant conditions. Another benefit of the statemachine pattern was the ease of implementing animations for our player. Since each state corresponds to a bool value in the animator, we can simply set it to true or false when the state is entered/exited, and the corresponding animation will play. 

Next, we utilized the MVC pattern to mainly implement our inventory and quest system. The model represents the internal data of our inventory and quest system, that tracks what items are in the inventory and also the status of the quests. SO_Quest, QuestInstance, QuestObjective, ItemData, InventorySlot are all data classes that doesn't know how they are utilized, they are merely there to represent a certain type of data. The controllers are QuestManager and PlayerInventory, which handles logics such as accepting quests, evaluating objectives, and adding and removing items. The view are the UIs that displays our internal data through a visible channel to our player. We have a QuestMenu that contains all the currently accepted quests and previously completed quests, and when you click on to a quest entry, data about the quest like reward amount, description, and requirements are made visible to the player too. Each time the internal inventory is changed, OnInventoryChanged is invoked which tells the InventoryUI to update and display the correct item data in the correct slots. 

Finally, we utilized the singleton pattern to decouple our code, and allow our singletons to manage the connection between different scripts. Locator.instance provides access to the player, which other scripts can use in order to access the player. For example, our HealthUI subscribes to the player's OnHealthChanged event through the locator. The player will broadcast that event whenever anything happens to its health, but it knows nothing about what other objects will react to that event, and this is the effect that is achieved through using the singleton pattern. The QuestManager also needs to be reached by many scripts, and making it a singleton allows that as well. Although not utlized in this game, by the direction our game is going for (an adventure combat game with many scenes), singletons that we marked as DontDestroyOnLoad will be able to persist across scenes and maintain their functionalities which is needed no matter what scene we are in right now. 



### Weida Chen
The main contribution that I have made towards the project since the check in was the scalable quest system. I created a QuestManager that tracks quest progress and a QuestGiver component that we can put on a NPC, which will allow the NPC to give dialogues based on the various different states of the quest (haven't accepted quest yet, in progress, met the requirements, and completed already). Quests are defined as SO_Quest scriptable objects where we can set the objectives, required items, and gold reward. The system will automatically check the player's inventory everytime it changes so that the quest's progress can be updated and the player will be able to see it via quest tracking UI. I modified DialogueNode and DialogueSystem so that specific dialogue nodes can trigger accepting or completing a quest, all of which can be done through the inspector. For the UI, I built a quest tracker that can show the currently tracked quest and the player's progress towards completing it. I also created a quest journal menu that will lists all the active and completed quests, where you can also click on them to show more details about the quest. 
### Leandro Lopez Ramirez 
following the check-in I have contributed to making the map further in detail for example I did changes around the map adding addtional tilemaps around the map (volcanic ash new layer, rock effect new layer), added more light effects into the map, more gameobjects  for example I added rocks as a decrative design, mountain like gameobject near the ground to add further detail, which are called Ea03_Enviromental RiverStriaght_01f_RPre LoD0_. Imported a low poly nature pack that allowed for me to replace my particle system that was for a concept of bonfire and add additional decorative designs around the map like the lighting plant gameobject scattered around the map for ambience, light effects were given to certain gameobjects like the EA03Prop_Sign_Chapel, or near trees, some are called point light with differing color, green, blue, associated with their respective objects. Nature tree gameobjects with unique sizes for more empahsis in decroative design and helped assist with dialouge node concept in a google document. 
### Lillian Su
Since the check-in, I have contributed to creating the dialogue between the player and the merchant NPC and the player and the farmer NPC. I inputed separate nodes for the lines of dialogue in a manner that branches conversation, giving the player freedom of choice. I've also added more item assets for the player to collect. Each item uploaded also has been attached an effect it will do to the player, like healing or strength.

## Open-Source Assets
- [2D Food Icons](https://henrysoftware.itch.io/pixel-food) - Pixel sprite for items and food in inventory.
- [3D Armory](https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/3d/environments/fantasy/stylized-fantasy-armory-low-poly-3d-art-249203) - Armory building within the scene and lamp asset
- [Ground Textures](https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/2d/textures-materials/free-stylized-pbr-textures-pack-111778) - Used for the dirt texture in the terrain of our scene
- [Slavic Medieval Town](https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/3d/environments/fantasy/free-slavic-medieval-town-kit-interior-exterior-environments-167010) - Majority of the assets in the scene, including tree, terrain texture, village buildings, and more
- [Medieval GUI](https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/2d/gui/icons/gui-parts-159068) - The assets used for the inventory and health bar UI 
- [3D Hero Asset](https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/3d/characters/humanoids/rpg-tiny-hero-duo-pbr-polyart-225148) - The 3D asset used to represent our playable character
- [Medieval Background Music](https://pixabay.com/music/main-title-medieval-background-351307/) - The normal background music played throughout the game
- [Simple Low Poly Nature Pack](https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/3d/environments/landscapes/simple-low-poly-nature-pack-157552) - This was used to add some designs into the ground for example lighting like bonfires, some trees in a duplicate scene, decorative designs
- [Start Menu music](https://pixabay.com/music/upbeat-the-tournament-280277/) - This was used for the background music of the start menu
- [Collect Item Sound effect](https://cyrex-studios.itch.io/universal-ui-soundpack) - This is used for the item collecting sound.
- [3D NPC asset](https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/3d/characters/humanoids/low-poly-character-pack-357288) - This was used for the apearance of the merchant NPC in our game
